today I'm going to be showing you how to
install the newest version of the miui
rom 19 16 which is running on the
gingerbread colonel i'll also be showing
you how to install the extended settings
mod which will allow you to customize
your status bar there are a couple of
things that have changed with this rom
since my last review and i'll touch on
them now briefly the built in recovery
now works along with the ability to
change the boot animation one thing that
they are still apparently working on is
the widescreen setting for the camera it
appears to work but after snapping a
photo you'll quickly realize that the
picture comes out blurry until this is
fixed you can still use the camera by
setting it on any other resolution in
the camera settings there's a few
advantages to running miui on the
gingerbread colonel the biggest one is
that it should give you better battery
life than what you've gotten on previous
versions with the froyo colonel another
good thing to note here about this
change is that the droid x device should
eventually be merged with the official
miui tree instead of having to wait for
the updates to be ported over for the
droid x it should be available in a
timely manner every friday along with
the rest of the officially supported
devices it should also be noted that
from here on out miui s newest updates
will only be for the gingerbread colonel
any version of miui before the 19 16
update is meant to be installed on the
froyo colonel only the 19 16 update
inversions after that are meant to be
installed on the gingerbread colonel now
we'll get started with the installation
please make sure you're either on cm7
with the gingerbread kernel or you're on
stock rooted gingerbread version 4.5
point 602 the easiest way to get there
if you're not already is to sbf to stock
gingerbread 602 and then root the phone
using the one click method links for the
step-by-step tutorials are in the
description and on the screen you will
not be able to install this if you're
running a gingerbread custom rom such as
apex suji and sensei mod 602 if you're
coming from a rom it must be one that
uses the second initialization process
during boot such as cm 7 GB to get
started you want to download the zip
file from the description and put it on
the root of your SD card for easy
navigation when I say root I mean in no
folders please take a moment to do that
now next you'll need to boot into
clockwork recovery to install the zip
file if you're currently on
cm7 you'll hold down the power button
and hit reboot recovery and then okay
if you're on stock rooted gingerbread
you'll need to go into the market and
download and install droid to bootstrap
or in order to get into recovery open
the app
tap bootstrap recovery tap allow
and then tap ok then reboot recovery
once you're in clockwork recovery you'll
use the volume keys to scroll and the
camera button to select making a backup
at this point is strongly suggested when
changing roams scroll to backup and
restore hit the camera button make sure
you're on back up and hit the camera
button again once that's done scroll to
wipe data/factory reset hit the camera
button scroll to yes hit the camera
button
now scroll to wipe cache partition and
the camera button scroll to yes and the
camera button again
and I'll scroll to advanced hit the
camera button
scroll to wipe dalvik cache press the
camera button now scroll to yes and the
camera button again scroll to install
zip from sdcard hit the camera button
scroll to to zip from the SD card hit
the camera button press the top volume
key to get to the bottom of the list and
find the zip file that you downloaded
hit the camera button
scroll to yes
and hit the camera button again
once that's done hit the back
and make sure your own reboot system now
hit the camera button the phone will now
reboot into your new rom if you get
stuck in a bootloop for longer than 10
minutes you'll need to do a factory
reset in stock recovery if you're not
familiar with that process on
gingerbread please see my step-by-step
tutorial linked in the description and
on the screen once the phone boots up
you'll need to go into the superuser app
and hit menu then settings turn the root
permission setting to on if you don't do
this you won't be able to use root apps
now I'm going to show you how to install
the extended settings mod by Andy
Thompson this mod will allow you to
change your battery indicator clock
format and Colour date format
and even over scrolling effect the
coolest feature of this mod though in my
opinion is the carrier text options you
can hide the carrier text change the
color change the text or even display a
custom carrier logo if you're familiar
with how to replace image files in a
theme to install the extended settings
mod download the zip file from the link
in the description and place it on the
root of your SD card unplug your phone
from the computer hold down the power
button and select reboot then
clockworkmod recovery then select ok
once you're in recovery scroll down and
select mounts make sure your own mount
system and select it
now press the back key and scroll to
install zip from sdcard press the camera
button make sure you're on to zip from
sd card and hit the camera button again
now scroll to the bottom of the list and
find the zip file that you downloaded
named es right hit the camera button
scroll to yes and the camera button
again when it's done hit the back button
and make sure you're on reboot system
now hit the camera button after the
phone reboots you should now have an app
named mi UI control open it and set
everything to your liking if you enjoy
this rom please consider donating to the
developer framework who is responsible
for bringing this rom to the droid x you
can hit me up on twitter at rage xmods
if you have questions or you want to get
updates on my videos if this video
helped you make sure you subscribe so
you can check out more step-by-step
tutorials and reviews
you